# ECON307 - Spring 2021
- [ECON307 - Spring 2021](#econ307---spring-2021)
  - [Honors Intermediate Macro](#honors-intermediate-macro)
  - [Course Materials and Communications](#course-materials-and-communications)
  - [Grading](#grading)
  - [Course Outline](#course-outline)
- [UBC values and policies](#ubc-values-and-policies)
      - [University policies and Academic Integrity](#university-policies-and-academic-integrity)
      - [Attending from jurisdictions outside Canada](#attending-from-jurisdictions-outside-canada)

## Honors Intermediate Macro
 This is a course in the tools of modern macroeconomics.  The emphasis will be on theory to help tune your intuition, and provide different lenses to interpret the macro-economy.

- **Instructor:** jesse.perla@ubc.ca
  - **Office Hours:** TBD
- **Teaching Assistant:** mahdi.ebk@gmail.com
  - **Office Hours:** TBD
- **Prerequisites:**  A score of 68\% or higher in ECON 305
- **Textbook:** None.  I will post my notes online (modifications of notes graciously provided by Thomas J. Sargent)

## Course Materials and Communications
All materials will be provided online:
- Class Materials: https://github.com/jlperla/ECON307_2021
- Communications, Announcements, and Grades: http://canvas.ubc.ca
- Zoom for lectures (stored on canvas)
  - You are responsible for obtaining the necessary equipment and connectivity to participate remotely, and to log on to each session at the appointed time. Zoom meeting links are accessible through Canvas by clicking on the “Zoom” link on the navigation menu
  - During zoom meetings, you are required to keep your video on. Most synchronous activities will involve lots of interaction and exchange. Seeing each other’s faces is important to establish meaningful two-way communication.
- Office hours and discussion technologies will be coordinated with the Honors Micro class and are TBD.

## Grading
This material is best learned by doing exercises.  When appropriate, I will review some of the problem set answers in class.
- 3-5 problem sets: 30%
- Midterm 1: 20%
- Midterm 2: 20%
- Final Exam: 30%

**Missed Exam Policy:** You are responsible for ensuring that you take these exams as scheduled; no make-up exams will be given.
- Missing a midterm for ANY reason will result in its weight being automatically transferred to the final exam.
- The final exam date will be announced by Student Services about half-way through the term. The final exam is part of the course and everyone MUST take it as scheduled. If you miss the final exam you will receive a mark of ZERO for it.
- There is no make-up final. Travel plans and/or cheap tickets are not a reason to miss the final. If you have a medical	or other compelling reason why you cannot take the final exam at its scheduled time you must follow the formal process and get an Academic Concession from your Faculty Advising Office.



## Course Outline

- Introduction and Tools

    - Why models? Why math?
    - Building to a full model of the macro economy
    - Difference equations, functional equations, and "guess-and-verify"
    - Probability and stochastic processes
    - Constrained optimization

- Practice thinking dynamic and recursive

    - Basic asset pricing example
    - Present value and infinite geometric sums
    - Linear state space models

- Consumption and Savings Decisions

    - Permanent income and rational expectations
    - Consumption growth and future income

- Expectations

    - Rational vs. adaptive expectations and ``rational bubbles''

- Unemployment and Search

    - The ``Lake Model''
    - Markov chains and long-run unemployment rates
    - Models of job search

- General Equilibrium

    - Endogenizing wages and other prices

- Interest Rates and Complete Markets

    - Theory of interest rates
    - Lucas Model in an endowment economy
    - Event trees and Arrow-Debreu complete markets model (maybe)

- Growth and Fiscal Policy

    - Malthusian growth model
    - Optimal growth and capital accumulation
    - Distorting taxes on capital, labor, and consumption
    - Government policy and budgets
    - Foreseen and unforeseen policy changes


# UBC values and policies

UBC provides resources to support student learning and to maintain healthy lifestyles but recognizes that sometimes crises arise and so there are additional resources to access including those for survivors of sexual violence. UBC values respect for the person and ideas of all members of the academic community. Harassment and discrimination are not tolerated nor is suppression of academic freedom. UBC provides appropriate accommodation for students with disabilities and for religious and cultural observances. UBC values academic honesty and students are expected to acknowledge the ideas generated by others and to uphold the highest academic standards in all of their actions. Details of the policies and how to access support are available here (https://senate.ubc.ca/policiesresources-support-student-success)

#### University policies and Academic Integrity

Your online interaction with your classmates and with faculty will be held to the same standards that in-person interaction would. Make your comments and interventions deliberate and respectful. During groupwork, be mindful that online exchanges do not convey the same level of non-verbal cues that are used in face-to-face conversation. Be explicit when communicating, and kind when interpreting the words of others. Strive to exercise graciousness in all things. Remember as well that you are bound by UBC’s Statement on Respectful Environment, available here: http://www.hr.ubc.ca/respectful-environment/files/UBC-Statement-on-Respectful-Environment-2014.pdf


UBC provides resources to support student learning and to maintain healthy lifestyles but recognizes that sometimes crises arise and so there are additional resources to access, including those for survivors of sexual violence. UBC values respect for the person and ideas of all members of the academic community. Harassment and discrimination are not tolerated nor is suppression of academic freedom. UBC provides appropriate accommodation for students with disabilities and for religious and cultural observances. UBC values academic honesty and students are expected to acknowledge the ideas generated by others and to uphold the highest academic standards in all of their actions. Details of the policies and how to access support are available here (https://senate.ubc.ca/policies-resources-support-student-success).

It is the policy of the Vancouver School of Economics to report all violations of UBC’s standards for academic honesty to the office of the Dean of Arts. Those standards (found at http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=3,54,0,0) should be carefully read before submitting work in this course. Additionally, the Vancouver School of  Economics expressly prohibits any student from hiring a tutor/editor to assist with any portion of written work or academic research. If at any point you feel in need additional writing support, please contact the Centre for Writing and Scholarly Communication and arrange for a writing consultation, or speak with your instructor. Any student who violates the rules for academic conduct on submitted work will be given an automatic grade of zero on that component of the course. Further penalties may be levied by the President’s Advisory Committee on Student Discipline. Possible further penalties could include a notation on your transcript indicating that you have committed an academic offence, failure of the course, a grade of zero in the course and/or suspension from the university. Speak to your instructor you have any questions regarding the standard for academic behaviour expected of students taking courses offered by the Vancouver School of Economics.

#### Attending from jurisdictions outside Canada

During this pandemic, the shift to online learning has greatly altered teaching and studying at UBC, including changes to health and safety considerations. Keep in mind that some UBC courses might cover topics that are censored or considered illegal by non-Canadian governments. This may include, but is not limited to, human rights, representative government, defamation, obscenity, gender or sexuality, and historical or current geopolitical controversies. If you are a student living abroad, you will be subject to the laws of your local jurisdiction, and your local authorities might limit your access to course material or take punitive action against you. UBC is strongly committed to academic freedom, but has no control over foreign authorities (please visit http://www.calendar.ubc.ca/vancouver/index.cfm?tree=3,33,86,0 for an articulation of the values of the University conveyed in the Senate Statement on Academic Freedom). Thus, we recognize that students will have legitimate reason to exercise caution in studying certain subjects. If you have concerns regarding your personal situation, consider postponing taking a course with manifest risks, until you are back on campus or reach out to your academic advisor to find substitute courses. For further information and support, please visit: http://academic.ubc.ca/support-resources/freedom-expression 

